docs/ssh_client_key_signing.md, before:

SSH client key signing with Vault
=================================

Vault's [SSH secrets
engine](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/secrets/ssh) can be used to
sign SSH client (and host) certificates. This can be used to grant time-limited
access to a collection of machines to users with suitable Vault tokens.


Low-level module
-----------------

This collection provides the
[`bbcrd.vault.vault_ssh_signer`](../plugins/modules/vault_ssh_signer.py)
module. This can be used to configure the SSH secrets engine and is largely a
declarative interface to the [relevant Vault
APIs](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/api-docs/secret/ssh).


`bbcrd.vault.configure_ssh_client_signer` role
----------------------------------------------

The [`bbcrd.vault.configure_ssh_client_signer`
role](../roles/configure_ssh_client_signer) presents a simple set of defaults
for the `bbcrd.vault.vault_ssh_signer` module.

This role can either generate a new keypair to use for key signing or use an
existing one provided to it (see the
[defaults](../roles/configure_ssh_client_signer/defaults/main.yml) for
details).

The following default variables control the validity and access granted by the
generated signed certificates:

* `bbcrd_vault_ssh_client_signer_ttl`: How long signed certificates remain
  valid.

* `bbcrd_vault_ssh_client_signer_users`: The set of principals (i.e. user
  accounts) the certificate grants access to.

* `bbcrd_vault_ssh_client_signer_extensions`: The set of SSH extensions
  permitted.

By default a policy named `ssh_admin` is created which permits the holder to
sign SSH public keys.


### Signing SSH public keys

Assuming you have the appropriate Vault policies in place, you can sign your
own `id_rsa.pub` SSH key as follows:

    $ vault write \
        -field=signed_key \
        ssh_client_signer/sign/admin \
        public_key=@$HOME/.ssh/id_rsa.pub \
          > ~/.ssh/id_rsa-cert.pub

Alternatively, the [`utils/vault_auth.py` script](../utils/vault_auth.py)
included in this collection will automatically perform this task after
authenticating with Vault.

Commit message:

Add support for configuring multiple SSH client signer roles

docs/ssh_client_key_signing.md, after:

SSH client key signing with Vault
=================================

Vault's [SSH secrets
engine](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/docs/secrets/ssh) can be used to
sign SSH client (and host) certificates. This can be used to grant time-limited
access to a collection of machines to users with suitable Vault tokens.


Low-level module
-----------------

This collection provides the
[`bbcrd.vault.vault_ssh_signer`](../plugins/modules/vault_ssh_signer.py)
module. This can be used to configure the SSH secrets engine and is largely a
declarative interface to the [relevant Vault
APIs](https://developer.hashicorp.com/vault/api-docs/secret/ssh).


`bbcrd.vault.configure_ssh_client_signer` role
----------------------------------------------

The [`bbcrd.vault.configure_ssh_client_signer`
role](../roles/configure_ssh_client_signer) presents a simple set of defaults
for the `bbcrd.vault.vault_ssh_signer` module.

This role can either generate a new keypair to use for key signing or use an
existing one provided to it (see the
[defaults](../roles/configure_ssh_client_signer/defaults/main.yml) for
details).

The Vault SSH signing service supports the definition of many 'roles', each of
these can produce certificates signed with the same keys but with different
properties (e.g. TTLs, principals or extensions) specified.

The `bbcrd_vault_ssh_client_signer_roles` dictionary maps from 'role' names to a
set of configuration options including:

* `bbcrd_vault_ssh_client_signer_roles.*.ttl`: How long signed certificates remain
  valid.

* `bbcrd_vault_ssh_client_signer_roles.*.users`: The set of principals (i.e. user
  accounts) the certificate grants access to.

* `bbcrd_vault_ssh_client_signer_roles.*.extensions`: The set of SSH extensions
  permitted.

If a policy name is given in `bbcrd_vault_ssh_client_signer_roles.*.policy`, a
policy will be created which permits the older to use that role to sign their
SSH key.

See
[`defaults/main.yml`](../roles/configure_ssh_client_signer/defaults/main.yml)
for full details.


### Signing SSH public keys

Assuming you have the appropriate Vault policies in place, you can sign your
own `id_rsa.pub` SSH key as follows:

    $ vault write \
        -field=signed_key \
        ssh_client_signer/sign/role_name_here \
        public_key=@$HOME/.ssh/id_rsa.pub \
          > ~/.ssh/id_rsa-cert.pub

Alternatively, the [`utils/vault_auth.py` script](../utils/vault_auth.py)
included in this collection will automatically perform this task after
authenticating with Vault. The `--ssh-signer-role`/`-r` argument may be used to
specify the role to use for signing.
